vue ~ _
20s" Carl Harr Telephone Conversation Oct. 26, 1959 {
Page 2
FROM: DAF
4 that ICA has a "nigger in the woodpile" and is trying to get him.; Dr. Fitz Soe
said most ofthe people won't be on board for six months. Mr. Harr said the
board was the first step in implementing the Great White Fleet. They have
already told Walsh they won't get anywhere until he gets his organization
set up. Mr. Harr concluded by saying he didn't think they could tell ICA
how to spend its funds on this.
Dr. Fitz said in one respect we are in no violent rush on this because the
money is available until next June. If we knew tomorrow that it would not be
needed for this purpose, there would be many people with wkegmk bright ideas
for using it. He said this was the balance of the old Asia Redevelopment Fund
which has been reappropriated for this purpose, and he would rather give them
plenty of time to satisfy themselves as well as us that they have a sound deal
cooked up.
Mr. Harr said it seemdd to him that ICA should be in touch with the TIMES person,
Edgar Smith. Mr. Smith came over to ICA and talked to our people, and they
reported back that they were very glad to see him -- that he had been the first
person to make sense. Mr. Harr said in order to avoid a letter writing operation
that might get publicity, why not call him?
Dr. Fitz said he had a suspicion that the LIFE-TIME people would want to wait
until their advertising campaign which is now scheduled for January gets underway
before doing mything definite on this, but Mr. Harr said once they have gone
this far they are pretty well in the soup. Dr. Fitz said dragging his feet now
would cost the HOPE people time, and perhaps might inspire the board to move
more rapidly than they otherwise would. Mr.Harr said the danger might be if
this letter is senf along and Walsh in his irresponsible way gets a lot of
adverse publicity, and the Hill gets alerted, this would make ICA look less than
goods so perhaps it would be good to talk it over first and perhaps get some
help from him. Said he thought Larson and his staff responsible people.
Dr. Fitz said they sure were suckers,tho, for the Great White Flee}, and Mr. Harr
replied this should convince him that the business side of TIME has nothing to do
with the Editorial side! Said Ed Smith is in New York but would come to Wash.
to discuss this with Dr. Fitz or perhaps he could just call on the phone whichever
he preferred, Dr. Fitz said he would call Mr. Smith.
a, Sa RA Se os PRAEGER REIL rare
eF
